 

Part 1: Interactive Data Dashboard

A.  Provide a copy of your interactive Tableau dashboard to support executive decision-making. Your dashboard must be accessible to users with colorblindness, and must include the components in each of the following bullet points:

•  data integrated from both chosen data sets

•  four different data representations to summarize the data or display trends

•  two different interactive controls that allow the user to modify the presentation of data

•  two different metrics or key performance indicators computed using data from both chosen data sets

1.  Provide both data sets that serve as the data source for the dashboard.

2.  Provide step-by-step instructions to guide users through the dashboard installation.

3.  Provide instructions to help users navigate the dashboard.
 

Part 2: Storytelling with Data

B.  Provide a link to a Panopto multimedia presentation in which you tell a story about the data to an audience of data analytics peers. Your presentation should implement elements of effective storytelling and include each of the following elements:

•  an introduction of yourself and your background

•  a summary of both chosen data sets and the context in which they occur

•  an outline of key results from your analysis of the two data sets

•  two different data representations to serve as supporting evidence for your results

•  a summary of actionable insights based on your results
 

Note: Your two data representations may come directly from your Tableau dashboard created in Part A or you may choose to use another software tool for data representation.
 



The audiovisual recording should feature you presenting the material on screen (i.e., not in voiceover or embedded video) and should simultaneously capture both you and your multimedia presentation.
 

For instructions on how to access and use Panopto, use the "Panopto How-To Videos" web link provided below. To access Panopto's website, navigate to the web link titled "Panopto Access," and then choose to log in using the “WGU” option. If prompted, log in using your WGU student portal credentials, and then it will forward you to Panopto’s website.
 

To submit your recording, upload it to the Panopto drop box titled “Representation and Reporting – NAM2 | D210.” Once the recording has been uploaded and processed in Panopto's system, retrieve the URL of the recording from Panopto and copy and paste it into the Links option. Upload the remaining task requirements using the Attachments option.
 



Part 3: Reflection Paper

C.  Write a reflection paper to demonstrate your understanding of data representation and reporting by doing the following:

1.  Explain how the purpose and function of your dashboard align with the needs outlined in the data dictionary associated with your chosen data set.

2.  Explain how the variables in the additional data set enhance the insights that can be drawn from the data set you chose from the provided options.

3.  Explain two different data representations from your dashboard and how executive leaders can use them to support decision-making.

4.  Explain two interactive controls in your dashboard and how each enables the user to modify the presentation of the data.

5.  Describe how you built your dashboard to be accessible for individuals with colorblindness.

6.  Explain how two data representations in your presentation support the story you wanted to tell.

7.  Explain how you used audience analysis to adapt the message in your presentation.

8.  Describe how you designed your presentation for universal access by all audiences.

9.  Explain two elements of effective storytelling that you implemented in your presentation and how each element was intended to engage the audience.
 

D.  Acknowledge sources, using in-text citations and references, for content that is quoted, paraphrased, or summarized.
 

E.  Demonstrate professional communication in the content and presentation of your submission.
